Adding Fine-Grain Authorization
==============================================


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

Adding Fine-Grain Authorization
-------------------------------

In this module you will add fine-grain controls to your policy to
restrict access to parts of the API based on parameters in the JWT. The
example will relate to user group membership, but it could be many
parameters (e.g. company, user, group, as source, etc).

The goal is to restrict access to any person API requests to only
members of the HR department.

Validate your policy blocks access to person requests without HR group membership
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------


In this task you will test the settings you just put in the per request
policy. You are expecting to be denied access to the /person URL because
employeeuser is not in the HR group that you have marked as a required
value in the JWT.

1. On the left side, select **List Employee Record**. It will now appear
   in another tab in the middle section and you should select it if it
   is not already.

2. Under Authorization type select **OAuth 2.0** for the type

3. From the **Available Tokens** drop down, select **employeeuser**

4. Make sure Add Authorization Data is set to **Request Headers**

5. Click **Preview Request** and note the header has been inserted

 .. image:: /_static/image30.png

6. Click **Send**

7. The result should be a **401 unauthorized** with no data in the body.
   The header will report an invalid token.

 .. image:: /_static/image31.png

You were denied access because the JWT retrieved by this user is not
allowed to access that data. We can resolve this by using credentials
that will generate a JWT valid for this request.

Acquire a JWT for hruser and validate it can access /person
-----------------------------------------------------------

In this task you will get another JWT and use that to gain access to the
/person portion of the API.

1.  Click Get **New Access Token**

 .. image:: /_static/image32.png

2.  Change the token name to **hruser**, the rest of the settings should
    be already correct.

 .. image:: /_static/image33.png

3.  Click **Request Token**

4.  Select **hruser** at the logon page and press logon.

 .. image:: /_static/image34.png

5.  A JWT should be returned and your JWT management token window will
    look like this:

 .. image:: /_static/image35.png

6.  Notice you now have two tokens, and click the X to close the window

7.  Select hruser from the Available Tokens drop down

8.  Click Preview Request

 .. image:: /_static/image36.png

9.  Click Send, you should get a 200 OK response and data in the
    response body like this:

 .. image:: /_static/image37.png

10. You can now change the token used on any request by using this
    process:

    a. Select the request

    b. Select the Authorization tab

    c. Select OAuth 2.0 from the type drop down menu

    d. Select the correct token from the Available Tokens drop down menu

    e. Make sure Authorization Data is set to Request Headers

    f. Click Preview Request to add the token to the headers

    g. Click Send on the request

In this module weâ€™ve used group membership to restrict access to
particular URIs, but in production you may encounter many different
variations. For example, an iRule can set an APM session variable equal
to the request method (e.g. GET, POST, etc) and then in the Per Request
Policy you can branch on method, only allowing POST from certain users,
groups, IPs, etc

JWTs are typically short lived and may or may not use refresh tokens. In
this lab the JWTs have been set as valid for several hours so you will
not need to get new JWTs during the lab.

More information about BIG-IP configuration settings available here :ref:`F5 BIG-IP configuration deep dive`